---
layout: post
title: Google Hurting Problem Solving Skills
subtitle: by Chris Cook
bigimg: /img/computer2.jpg
---
TL;DR:Google is hurting students because it making them become less independent on their studies.

When people have problems that they can't solve, they might go look for answers on the Internet. They are most likely using a search engine called Google. This is an efficient way to look for answers because it is fast and saves time. However, what people do not know about using Google is that they are becoming lazier. Every time someone gets answers off the Internet they are usually not making an attempt to actually learn the material they are copying. Not everyone can see the consequences of getting information off Google. Also, people who use Google as a crutch to solve the problems they have in their daily lives struggle. Google is used for almost anything you can think of, so people can struggle in many categories. Where people struggle the most is with education. Students that have grown up using Google as a source for answers have weakened their problem solving skills.

At a very young age kids learn to use the Internet. Some kids use Google without even knowing what it really is. Most of them think Google is the Internet and that it is a place where you can find anything you want. Kids who are not taught how to properly use Google will abuse the sources it has to offer. Google can be abused in many ways by students. It can be used to get answers for typical homework assignments for example. If a student is not doing homework by themselves and copying, they are not going to understand the material they have been learning in class. Google can also be used to help with essays. This is where students get in the most trouble. If a student copies or forgets to site the sources that they found on the Internet, they will get penalized. This is not good for any student. Students who get in the habit of plagiarizing will not be able to get out of the punishment. Every school and college has penalties against plagiarizing and some of these include getting kicked out.

Students in middle and high school will definitely branch out to Google when they are in need of assistance. Even though students can seek help from a teacher or a professor, they choose to use Google because it is much easier. However, if they are not using Google to learn they are only going to hurt themselves later in the future. There are two ways a person can use Google as a study source. The first way is just copying every piece you can. This is a fast and simple way to complete any homework assignment. This is also the most common way people use Google today. The second way Google can be used is as learning guide. If students would take the time to sit down and learn the material they are discussing they would not be struggling in their daily lives. Google in general teaches us that there is a simpler way to everything, but sometimes this might not be the best choice for us. Having the answers right in front of us does not help our problems solving skills. Having problem solving skills is essential for any career or job one seeks in today's society. Without these skills you are almost meaningless to the community.

We have all had stress when it comes to rigorous assignments and exams, but where does this stress come from? You can say that it is from the assignment being big in general or that you waited till the last minute to do it. Another reason could be that you do not know whats going on. Not knowing what to do on an assignment or exam can be one of the most stressful times a student faces. Google can be one of the main causes for student stress. If a student chooses to use Google rather than pay attention and read the notes from the prior classes, they are going to face many obstacles. Sometimes Google cannot answer everything we want it to. So, people who use Google and have problems in class should try a different approach. Instead of getting just answers from Google, maybe just get tips and ideas. You can also Google to learn more about subjects you did not already know. No matter what way you use the Google search engine, make sure that it not affecting the way you are or the choices you make in your daily lives.



<a title="My setup at work" href="https://flickr.com/photos/alrod/1401249466">My setup at work</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/alrod">razumny</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-SA) license</a> </small>
