---
layout: post
title: Problems With Piracy
subtitle: Why do we do it?
bigimg: /img/2698086997_7a8fa24266_o.jpg
---
TL;DR: Piracy is a problem that businesses and individuals are trying to resolve.

We all love to listen to music that we download and use the programs we get for free. We download as many songs as we can and get a hold of software that usually costs hundreds of dollars. However, we forget that there are laws and even consequences against people who pirate music and software. Most of us think piracy is not a real crime and we do it anyway. Piracy is one of the most underrated subjects in today's society because not everyone knows how drastic the effects are. It has affected many groups and people over the years. Many of these people are taking action into to stopping pirating because it is causing them to lose profit in their businesses. Even though piracy seems like it causes no harm, you are essentially stealing from someone else.

There has been much research done on piracy. Some of it states piracy is good and other research shows it has a completely negative effect on society. Either way you look at it, piracy has a strong effect on society. There are many areas that piracy effects. Some examples can include music, software, apps, games, and anything you get for free that costs money. All of these examples have something in common, and that is people download each of them with out any regards to piracy. Very little people know what piracy is and some do not even realize that have been pirating against other groups and individuals. To better my understanding of people's knowledge on piracy I decided to interview my roommate Albert Kolubah. I decided to ask my roommate what his intial thoughts on piracy were, and what it meant to him. He responded by saying that piracy is not all bad and that it benefits most people who do it. The next question I asked Albert was if he knew what the different types of piracy are. He told me that he only knew of music that was downloaded illegally being a type of pirating. I informed that there are many types of piracy and they are anything you have to buy that you can get illegally for free. The next question I asked my roommate was ",who is affected in a negative way when it comes to piracy?" He told me that mainly the owner themselves are affected because they are making less sales with pirates. I also asked him who benefits from piracy, and he said the people who download the software illegally. After I asked him these questions I told them both people who download the software and victims of piracy can be positively and negatively affected. People who download the music may get it for free, but in the long run they know it is wrong and will feel guilty. People who are constant victims of piracy may be losing money, but in the long run they are being put out there by these pirates. After the point I made, I asked Albert if there were any other benefits that he knew of piracy. He just stated that all the software you download is free and you have it forever. I also asked if there were anymore negative to downloading illegal software. He made a valid point when he said that you could get viruses because you do not really know what you are downloading. Another question I asked was if he knew of any other ways people can limit piracy. He really did not know how to answer the question because he was unfamiliar with it. At this point in the interview my interviewee has a pretty good understanding of what digital piracy is and who and what it affects. I decided to ask him if piracy is good for our society. Albert said that it can be good and also bad depending on how you look at the subject. I agree with him because piracy overall is very controversial topic. One question that I really wanted to ask my roommate was if there should be more laws, and also if they should enforce them more. I already knew that he probably would not know most of the piracy laws. I informed him about some of the laws and consequences people face when they get in trouble with piracy. After informing him, he told me the laws are pretty fair. The only concern he had about the piracy laws were actually knowing them. He made a very good point, not everyone knows about these laws and maybe if they did they would not steal software anymore.
For my last question I wanted to hear Albert's opinion on a piece of research I found. The research was ",The digital growth in music fell form 2008 to 12% in 2010." He had no idea that the music industry was being affected so greatly. He feels that this needs to be dealt with immediately before it gets worse.

The whole point of my interview was to see if some average student knew about digital piracy. Judging by my findings I feel that students know that downloading music and software is wrong, but I am not sure if they know it is piracy or not. Not everyone knows about piracy and the laws the government has against it. I feel that society needs to be more informed on this subject because it is a very dangerous topic. You can get yourself into a great amount of trouble if you pirate music or software and get caught. Overall, you can ruin your entire life because of piracy. In the end it is just not worth it.

<a title="copy the pirates" href="https://flickr.com/photos/will-lion/2698086997">copy the pirates</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/will-lion">Will Lion</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>
