---
layout: post
title: Modern Technology
subtitle: Can We Appreciate?
bigimg: /img/9896378035_f67136c0b6_k.jpg
---

TL;DR: Modern Technology has made people take everything for granite and pushes them to expect more out of the simplest of creations. Companies who create modern technology also have a hard time understanding what is beneficial and efficient for society.

Today, we are surrounded by technology that benefits us in almost every way possible. Advances in certain areas of modern technology are making people stubborn and always prone to getting the latest version of products. People forget that it takes time for certain technology to be developed. However, they don’t take that into consideration and expect more out of people who create new technical products for the world. Society is always expecting more from the producers in which they buy from. They have no idea what it takes to get a product fully developed and distributed into stores. Also, some of the products that are massed produced may be rushed and not even ready to be sold to consumers, but are anyways. I feel that modern technology has subjected everyone to thinking that new products should always be coming out regardless of the time it takes to make them and if they are ready or not.

Technology has benefited the world in a number of ways. In fact, so many ways that people forgot how to appreciate what they already have. With technology booming the way it is today, who knows what we could be in store for? This doesn’t mean we should keep coming out with the same products every year to satisfy customer needs. It sounds kind of absurd to go against the customer. In the long run though, if producers took more time to create and develop products, they would be better and more efficiently produced. I feel that if technology companies took the time to develop certain products they would gain more customers because of how good the product actually is. Many companies have lost their customer base because of a bad products they sold. A number of companies ship newer versions of a product out every year. These companies might be worried that if they took an extra year to modify the product they might lose customers. This could be true, but it also creates more tension on the product. More people are going to want the product if it takes longer to produce. So, it all depends on what type of product that is sold. People might actually agree with certain products being developed in two years instead of one.

If companies do take the time to modify and perfect the products they make, they will gain more popularity. One example of products that are released and rushed every year are cars. Cars that are manufactured today are cheaply made and sometimes not really dependent. It takes a great amount of money to make cars and most of them aren’t even sold. If cars took two or even three years to make, it will save money for the company and the customer will get a dependable car they can rely on. Everything would also be more efficient. When cars are made it takes a great deal of effort. If a car is not sold that year its value depreciates and companies selling it lose money. There are many other examples like this that show how products are rushed and are not even sold. If companies do decided to take more time it is going to solve many problems. The product is obviously going to be better. Also, more people are going to be attracted to it because of how much it has been talked about. Most importantly people are going to appreciate it. Some of the products we spend money on today we couldn’t sell for same price, especially if a newer version is out. The value of products like these goes down so much that it is not even worth getting rid of. Products should be built to last a long time, but they are only built to last until the next one comes out. People are automatically pushed into to buying the newer version because they one they already have is outdated.

Companies that take longer to make products usually do better in the long run anyways. It all depends on how each company looks at it economically. Some of these sellers might only be looking to make a few quick dollars and others are trying to revolutionizing the world. I feel modern technology’s definition is often misinterpreted. Many people feel that modern technology is just making a vast of amount of products all at once. The real meaning to modern technology is making the world better with newer products. Many products don’t fall under this category because they are not different from the previous version of them. This is sort of a waste because all the time that was spent into a similar product could of been spent elsewhere trying to build a product that will change the world. The world will get tired of the same products and look for different ones that will better their lives instead.
The technology that we use was created to better our lives and make it easier. If we keep getting the same technology how is that going to help us? We also need to appreciate what we already have. Even though newer products might come out they probably aren’t better. We have to think more efficiently so that we can create technology that benefits us but at the same time lasts longer. Companies need more time to develop their products and need less tension. As sellers we must give them time so that we can get technology that will truly be helpful. There are many different opinions between companies and consumers on how certain products should be sold. If both the consumer and company saw each other’s perspective I feel that the world would be full of products that are revolutionizing. A society that understands each other’s views will prevail and become more modernized.



<a title="tesla car" href="https://flickr.com/photos/drakh/9896378035">tesla car</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/drakh">Drakh</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC) license</a> </small>
